Final Revisions to Title 5, California Code of Regulations
Related to Credit for Prior Learning and High School Course
Articulation
SECTION 55050 OF ARTICLE 5 OF SUBCHAPTER 1 OF CHAPTER 6 OF
DIVISION 6 OF TITLE 5 OF THE CALIFORNIA CODE OF REGULATIONS IS
AMENDED TO READ:
§ 55050. Credit for Prior Learning.
(a) The governing board of each community college district shall adopt comprehensive
policies for awarding credit for prior learning.
(ab) The governing board of each community college district shall adopt and publish
policies pertaining to credit for prior learning. The policies developed pursuant to
subdivision (a) shall be transparent and accessible to all stakeholders, and published at
leastminimum in college catalogs. Procedures for students to attain credit for prior
learning shall include, but not be limited to, credit by examination, evaluation of Joint
Services Transcripts, evaluation of authenticated competencies, student-created
portfolios, evaluation of industry-recognized credential documentation certifications and
documented trainings, and standardized examsexaminations.
(c) Credit may be awarded for prior experience or prior learning only for individually
identified courses with subject matter similar to that of the individual's prior learning, and
only for a course listed in the catalog of the community college. Colleges shall consider
the credit recommendations of the American Council on Education pursuant to Education
Code section 66025.71. Upon a student's demonstration of sufficient mastery through an
examination or assessment, an award of credit should be made, if possible, to the
California General Education Transfer Curriculum (Cal-GETC) and local community college
general education requirements or requirements for a student's chosen program. Award
of credit may be made to electives for students who do not require additional general
education or program credits to meet their goals.
(d) Units for which credit is awarded pursuant to the provisions of this section may be
counted in determining the 12 semester hours of credit in residence required for an
associate degree.
(e) The policies adopted by the governing board of a community college district pursuant
to this section shall require that a student, as a component of their educational planning
process pursuant to California Education Code section 78212, be advised of credit for
prior learning opportunities and referred to the college's appropriate authority for
assessment of prior learning.
(bf) The governing board may grant credit to any student who satisfactorily passes an
assessment approved or conducted by proper authorities of the college. For purposes of
this section, “assessment” means the process that faculty undertake with a student to
ensure the student demonstrates sufficient mastery of the course contentoutcomes as set


                                                                                            A11Y 6/19/26
forth in the course outline of record. “Sufficient mastery” means having attained a level of
knowledge, skill, and information equivalent to that demonstrated generally by students
who receive the minimum passing grade in the course.
(g) The policies for assessments adopted by the governing board of a community college
district shall offer students an opportunity to accept, decline, or appeal decisions related
to the award of credit, and in cases of credit by examination, pursuant to sections 55021
and 55025.
(ch) The nature and content of the assessment shall be determined solely by faculty in the
discipline who normally teach the course for which credit is to be granted in accordance
with policies and procedures approved by the curriculum committee established
pursuant to section 55002. The faculty shall determine that the assessment adequately
measures mastery of the course content as set forth in the course outline of record. The
faculty may accept an assessment conducted or proctored at a location other than the
community college for this purpose.
(d) Credit may be awarded for prior experience or prior learning only for individually
identified courses with subject matter similar to that of the individual's prior learning, and
only for a course listed in the catalog of the community college. Colleges shall consider
the credit recommendations of the American Council on Education pursuant to Education
Code section 66025.71. Upon a student's demonstration of sufficient mastery through an
examination or assessment, an award of credit should be made, if possible, to California
Intersegmental General Education Transfer Curriculum, California State University
General Education Breadth, and local community college general education requirements
or requirements for a student's chosen program. Award of credit may be made to
electives for students who do not require additional general education or program credits
to meet their goals.
(ei) Credit by Examination: The determination to offer credit by examination rests solely
on the discretion of the discipline faculty. A separate examination shall be conducted for
each course for which credit is to be granted. Credit may be granted only to a student who
is registered at the college and in good standing and only for a course listed in the catalog
of the community college.
(f) The student's academic record shall be clearly annotated to reflect that credit was
earned by assessment of prior learning.
(gj) Grading shall be according to the regular grading system approved by the governing
board pursuant to section 55023, except that students shall be offered a “pass-no pass”
option if that option is ordinarily available for the course.
(h) Units for which credit is given pursuant to the provisions of this section shall not be
counted in determining the 12 semester hours of credit in residence required for an
associate degree.
(ik) A district may charge a student a fee for administering an examination pursuant to
this section, provided the fee does not exceed the enrollment fee which would be
associated with enrollment in the course for which the student seeks credit by
examination.
(j) The policies and procedures adopted by the governing board of a community college
district pursuant to this section shall require that a student, upon completion of their
educational plan pursuant to California Education Code Section 78212, shall be referred
to the college's appropriate authority for assessment of prior learning if the student is a
veteran or an active-duty member of the armed forces, holds industry-recognized
credentials, or requests credit for a course based on their prior learning.
(k) The policies for assessments adopted by the governing board of a community college
shall offer students an opportunity to accept, decline, or appeal decisions related to the
award of credit, and in cases of credit by exam, pursuant to sections 55021 and 55025.
(l) The student's academic record shall be clearly annotated to reflect that credit was
earned through an alternative method of assessment for prior learning.
(lm) The governing board of each community college district shall review the credit for
prior learning policy policies every three years and report findings to the Chancellor's
Office. Findings shall include data disaggregated by gender and race/ethnicity including
the number of students who received credit for prior learning, the number of credits
awarded per student, retention and persistence rates of students earning credit for prior
learning, completion data (for certificate, degree, and transfer) for students earning credit
for prior learning, and qualitative assessments by students of the policies and procedures.
(m) The governing board of each community college district shall incorporate policies
pursuant to section 55052 on College Board Advanced Placement examinations and any
other districtwide policies governing the award of credit for prior learning to create a
comprehensive credit for prior learning policy.
(n) By December 31, 2020, the district shall certify in writing to the Chancellor of the
California Community Colleges that the policies required by this section have been
adopted and implemented.
NOTE: Authority cited: Sections 66025.71, 66700 and 70901, Education Code. Reference:
Sections 70901, and 70902, and 88782, Education Code.
SECTION 55051 OF ARTICLE 5 OF SUBCHAPTER 1 OF CHAPTER 6 OF
DIVISION 6 OF TITLE 5 OF THE CALIFORNIA CODE OF REGULATIONS IS
AMENDED TO READ:
§ 55051. High School Course Articulation Agreements of High School Courses.
(a) For purposes of this section, the term “articulated high school course articulation
agreement” means a formal agreement that a high school course or courses that the
faculty in the appropriate discipline, using course outlines of record policies and
procedures approved by the curriculum committee established pursuant to section
55002, have determined to be comparable to a specific community college course or
courses.
(b) The governing board of a community college district may adopt policies to permit
articulated high school courses with articulation agreements to be applied to community
college requirements in accordance with this section. Articulated These high school
courses with articulation agreements high school courses may be accepted in lieu of
comparable community college courses only to partially satisfy:
(1) requirements for a certificate program, including the total number of units required for
the certificate; or,
(2) The major or area of emphasis requirements in a local associate degree program.
(c) Articulated A high school courses accepted for credit through a high school course
articulation agreement used to partially satisfy certificate or major/area of emphasis
requirements shall be clearly noted as such on the student's academic record. Districts
may require a standard or abbreviated college application process for the purpose of
establishing academic credit. Notations of community college course credit shall be made
only if community college courses are successfully completed or if credit is earned via
credit by examination.
(d) Except through credit by examination, as defined in section 5575355050(i), high school
courses may not be used to satisfy:
(1) The requirement of section 5506355061 that students complete at least 60 semester or
90 quarter units in order to receive an associate degree; or,
(2) Any general education requirement for the associate degree established by the district.
NOTE: Authority cited: Sections 66700 and 70901, Education Code. Reference: Sections
66700, 70901 and 70902, Education Code.
                                            XXX
