LII > State Regulations > California Code of Regulations > Title 5 - Education
 > Division 6 - California Community Colleges
 > Chapter 6 - Curriculum and Instruction
 > Subchapter 1 - Programs, Courses and Classes
 > Article 5 - Alternative Methods for Awarding Credit
 > Cal. Code Regs. Tit. 5, § 55050 - Credit for Prior Learning




Cal. Code Regs. Tit. 5, § 55050 - Credit
for Prior Learning
    Summarize this page using Acrobat AI Assistant.




 State Regulations          Compare


   (a) The governing board of each community college district shall adopt and publish
   policies pertaining to credit for prior learning. The policies shall be transparent and
   accessible to all stakeholders, published at least in college catalogs. Procedures for
   students to attain credit for prior learning shall include, but not be limited to, credit by
   examination, evaluation of Joint Services Transcripts, evaluation of student-created
   portfolios, evaluation of industry-recognized credential documentation, and
   standardized exams.

   (b) The governing board may grant credit to any student who satisfactorily passes an
   assessment approved or conducted by proper authorities of the college. For purposes
   of this section, "assessment" means the process that faculty undertake with a student
   to ensure the student demonstrates sufficient mastery of the course outcomes as set
forth in the course outline of record. "Sufficient mastery" means having attained a
level of knowledge, skill, and information equivalent to that demonstrated generally
by students who receive the minimum passing grade in the course.

(c) The nature and content of the assessment shall be determined solely by faculty in
the discipline who normally teach the course for which credit is to be granted in
accordance with policies and procedures approved by the curriculum committee
established pursuant to section 55002. The faculty shall determine that the
assessment adequately measures mastery of the course content as set forth in the
outline of record. The faculty may accept an assessment conducted at a location other
than the community college for this purpose.

(d) Credit may be awarded for prior experience or prior learning only for individually
identified courses with subject matter similar to that of the individual's prior learning,
and only for a course listed in the catalog of the community college. Colleges shall
consider the credit recommendations of the American Council on Education pursuant
to Education Code section 66025.71. Upon a student's demonstration of sufficient
mastery through an examination or assessment, an award of credit should be made, if
possible, to California Intersegmental General Education Transfer Curriculum,
California State University General Education Breadth, and local community college
general education requirements or requirements for a student's chosen program.
Award of credit may be made to electives for students who do not require additional
general education or program credits to meet their goals.

(e) Credit by Examination: The determination to offer credit by examination rests
solely on the discretion of the discipline faculty. A separate examination shall be
conducted for each course for which credit is to be granted. Credit may be granted
only to a student who is registered at the college and in good standing and only for a
course listed in the catalog of the community college.

(f) The student's academic record shall be clearly annotated to reflect that credit was
earned by assessment of prior learning.

(g) Grading shall be according to the regular grading system approved by the
governing board pursuant to section 55023, except that students shall be offered a
"pass-no pass" option if that option is ordinarily available for the course.

(h) Units for which credit is given pursuant to the provisions of this section shall not be
counted in determining the 12 semester hours of credit in residence required for an
associate degree.

(i) A district may charge a student a fee for administering an examination pursuant to
this section, provided the fee does not exceed the enrollment fee which would be
    associated with enrollment in the course for which the student seeks credit by
    examination.

    (j) The policies and procedures adopted by the governing board of a community
    college district pursuant to this section shall require that a student, upon completion
    of their educational plan pursuant to California Education Code Section 78212, shall
    be referred to the college's appropriate authority for assessment of prior learning if
    the student is a veteran or an active-duty member of the armed forces, holds
    industry-recognized credentials, or requests credit for a course based on their prior
    learning.

    (k) The policies for assessments adopted by the governing board of a community
    college shall offer students an opportunity to accept, decline, or appeal decisions
    related to the award of credit, and in cases of credit by exam, pursuant to sections
    55021 and 55025.

    (l) The governing board of each community college district shall review the credit for
    prior learning policy every three years and report findings to the Chancellor's Office.
    Findings shall include data disaggregated by gender and race/ethnicity including the
    number of students who received credit for prior learning, the number of credits
    awarded per student, retention and persistence rates of students earning credit for
    prior learning, completion data (for certificate, degree, and transfer) for students
    earning credit for prior learning, and qualitative assessments by students of the
    policies and procedures.

    (m) The governing board of each community college district shall incorporate policies
    pursuant to section 55052 on College Board Advanced Placement examinations and
    any other districtwide policies governing the award of credit for prior learning to
    create a comprehensive credit for prior learning policy.

    (n) By December 31, 2020, the district shall certify in writing to the Chancellor of the
    California Community Colleges that the policies required by this section have been
    adopted and implemented.


Notes
Cal. Code Regs. Tit. 5, § 55050
1. New article 5 (sections 55050-55052) and section filed 7-17-2007; operative 8-16-2007.
Submitted to OAL for printing only pursuant to Education Code section 70901.5 (Register
2007, No. 35).
2. Amendment of section heading, section and NOTE filed 2-20-2020; operative 3-21-2020.
Submitted to OAL for printing only pursuant to Education Code section 70901.5 (Register
2020, No. 12).
Note: Authority cited: Sections 66025.71, 66700 and 70901, Education Code. Reference:
Sections 70901 and 70902, Education Code.

1. New article 5 (sections 55050-55052) and section filed 7-17-2007; operative 8-16-2007.
Submitted to OAL for printing only pursuant to Education Code section 70901.5(Register
2007, No. 35).
2. Amendment of section heading, section and Note filed 2-20-2020; operative 3-21-2020.
Submitted to OAL for printing only pursuant to Education Code section 70901.5 (Register
2020, No. 12).




    State Regulations Toolbox
Accessibility
About LII
Contact us
Advertise here
Help
Terms of use
Privacy
