5 CCR 55050 and 55051 - CLEAN TEXT AS ADOPTED 2026-08-12
========================================================

Derived by kb/_derive_55050_clean.py from the Board of Governors final-revisions
redline (docs/reference/statute/t5_55050_55051_final_reg_text_2026-08-12.txt).
Strikethrough text is removed and inserted text kept -- i.e. this is how the
section will read once the regulation is published on the web.
Sam Lee, 2026-08-26: "disregard all the strikethrough language as that will be
pulled off when the reg is published on the web."

This file is the BASELINE any further amendment is drafted against. It is
generated, not typed: re-run the script to reproduce it.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

SECTION 55050 OF ARTICLE 5 OF SUBCHAPTER 1 OF CHAPTER 6 OF DIVISION 6 OF TITLE 5 OF THE CALIFORNIA CODE OF REGULATIONS IS AMENDED TO READ:

§ 55050. Credit for Prior Learning.

(a) The governing board of each community college district shall adopt comprehensive policies for awarding credit for prior learning.

(b) The governing board of each community college district shall adopt and publish policies pertaining to credit for prior learning. The policies developed pursuant to subdivision (a) shall be transparent and accessible to all stakeholders, and published at minimum in college catalogs. Procedures for students to attain credit for prior learning shall include, but not be limited to, credit by examination, evaluation of Joint Services Transcripts, evaluation of authenticated competencies, student-created portfolios, evaluation of industry-recognized certifications and documented trainings, and standardized examinations.

(c) Credit may be awarded for prior experience or prior learning only for individually identified courses with subject matter similar to that of the individual's prior learning, and only for a course listed in the catalog of the community college. Colleges shall consider the credit recommendations of the American Council on Education pursuant to Education Code section 66025.71. Upon a student's demonstration of sufficient mastery through an examination or assessment, an award of credit should be made, if possible, to the California General Education Transfer Curriculum (Cal-GETC) and local community college general education requirements or requirements for a student's chosen program. Award of credit may be made to electives for students who do not require additional general education or program credits to meet their goals.

(d) Units for which credit is awarded pursuant to the provisions of this section may be counted in determining the 12 semester hours of credit in residence required for an associate degree.

(e) The policies adopted by the governing board of a community college district pursuant to this section shall require that a student, as a component of their educational planning process pursuant to California Education Code section 78212, be advised of credit for prior learning opportunities and referred to the college's appropriate authority for assessment of prior learning.

(f) The governing board may grant credit to any student who satisfactorily passes an assessment approved or conducted by proper authorities of the college. For purposes of this section, “assessment” means the process that faculty undertake with a student to ensure the student demonstrates sufficient mastery of the course outcomes as set forth in the course outline of record. “Sufficient mastery” means having attained a level of knowledge, skill, and information equivalent to that demonstrated generally by students who receive the minimum passing grade in the course.

(g) The policies for assessments adopted by the governing board of a community college district shall offer students an opportunity to accept, decline, or appeal decisions related to the award of credit, and in cases of credit by examination, pursuant to sections 55021 and 55025.

(h) The nature and content of the assessment shall be determined solely by faculty in the discipline who normally teach the course for which credit is to be granted in accordance with policies and procedures approved by the curriculum committee established pursuant to section 55002. The faculty shall determine that the assessment adequately measures mastery of the course content as set forth in the course outline of record. The faculty may accept an assessment conducted or proctored at a location other than the community college for this purpose.

(i) Credit by Examination: The determination to offer credit by examination rests solely on the discretion of the discipline faculty. A separate examination shall be conducted for each course for which credit is to be granted. Credit may be granted only to a student who is registered at the college and in good standing and only for a course listed in the catalog of the community college.

(j) Grading shall be according to the regular grading system approved by the governing board pursuant to section 55023, except that students shall be offered a “pass-no pass” option if that option is ordinarily available for the course.

(k) A district may charge a student a fee for administering an examination pursuant to this section, provided the fee does not exceed the enrollment fee which would be associated with enrollment in the course for which the student seeks credit by examination.

(l) The student's academic record shall be clearly annotated to reflect that credit was earned through an alternative method of assessment for prior learning.

(m) The governing board of each community college district shall review the credit for prior learning policies every three years and report findings to the Chancellor's Office. Findings shall include data disaggregated by gender and race/ethnicity including the number of students who received credit for prior learning, the number of credits awarded per student, retention and persistence rates of students earning credit for prior learning, completion data (for certificate, degree, and transfer) for students earning credit for prior learning, and qualitative assessments by students of the policies and procedures.

NOTE: Authority cited: Sections 66025.71, 66700 and 70901, Education Code. Reference: Sections 70901, 70902, and 88782, Education Code.

SECTION 55051 OF ARTICLE 5 OF SUBCHAPTER 1 OF CHAPTER 6 OF DIVISION 6 OF TITLE 5 OF THE CALIFORNIA CODE OF REGULATIONS IS AMENDED TO READ:

§ 55051. Articulation Agreements of High School Courses.

(a) For purposes of this section, the term “high school course articulation agreement” means a formal agreement that a high school course or courses that the faculty in the appropriate discipline, using policies and procedures approved by the curriculum committee established pursuant to section 55002, have determined to be comparable to a specific community college course or courses.

(b) The governing board of a community college district may adopt policies to permit high school courses with articulation agreements to be applied to community college requirements in accordance with this section. These high school courses with articulation agreements may be accepted in lieu of comparable community college courses only to partially satisfy:

(1) requirements for a certificate program, including the total number of units required for the certificate; or,

(2) The major or area of emphasis requirements in a local associate degree program.

(c) A high school course accepted for credit through a high school course articulation agreement used to partially satisfy certificate or major/area of emphasis requirements shall be clearly noted as such on the student's academic record. Districts may require a standard or abbreviated college application process for the purpose of establishing academic credit. Notations of community college course credit shall be made only if community college courses are successfully completed or if credit is earned via credit by examination.

(d) Except through credit by examination, as defined in section 55050(i), high school courses may not be used to satisfy:

(1) The requirement of section 55061 that students complete at least 60 semester or 90 quarter units in order to receive an associate degree; or,

(2) Any general education requirement for the associate degree established by the district.

NOTE: Authority cited: Sections 66700 and 70901, Education Code. Reference: Sections 66700, 70901 and 70902, Education Code.
